
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

## EMSE 4571: Intro. to Programming for Analytics (Spring 2023) <a href='https://github.com/emse-p4a-gwu/2023-Spring'><img src='images/logo.png' align="right" height="139"/></a>

<!-- badges: start -->

![Render & Deploy
Site](https://github.com/emse-p4a-gwu/2023-Spring/workflows/Render%20&%20Deploy%20Site/badge.svg)
[![License: CC-BY-SA
4.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC%20BY--SA-lightgrey)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)
<!-- badges: end -->

### Description

This course provides a foundation in programming for analytics using the
[R programming language](https://www.r-project.org/) with a comparison
to [Python](https://www.python.org/). Topics covered include
fundamentals of programming (operators, data types, objects, functions,
conditionals, loops, strings, testing, and debugging) as well as
techniques for working with data sets in R and Python (file
input/output, data structures, data wrangling, data visualization,
external packages, and reproducible reporting). Emphasis will be on
producing clear, robust, and reasonably efficient code using top-down
design, informal analysis, and effective testing and debugging. Students
will primarily work on individual programming assignments to develop
skills in computational problem solving, writing code, and working with
data. Students will be assessed through quizzes, homework assignments,
and exams. Teaching will involve interactive lectures with plenty of
time spent live coding and working on practice problems in class. This
course assumes no prior programming experience and is an ideal
preparation for higher level courses in data analytics.

For more details, please see the [course
website](https://p4a.seas.gwu.edu/2023-Spring/).

### Acknowledgments

This course was inspired by many other courses / resources that cover
similar material - see the course [about
page](https://p4a.seas.gwu.edu/2023-Spring/about.html) for more details.
